this is may 31st 1900 and we're sitting in the
office of the executive director of the former
students association and getting ready to
interview porter garner iii porter use your mic
for a sentence how's that test one two A little
stronger, I think, based on location. To begin
with, to introduce yourself to anyone that might
hear this tape or read the transcription,
describe family background, where you grew up,
where you went to high school.
Okay. I grew up in Laredo, Texas, down on the Rio
Grande border with a father who was a member of the
class of 1945, a grandfather who had two degrees
from the University of Texas, and a degree from
Texas A&I University. In fact, something I'm
rather proud of, when Texas A&I was founded, my
grandfather was the first in line to enroll. and
would have been recorded as the first student to
enroll at Texas A&I if not for the gentleman in him
whereupon there was a young lady behind him and he
said ladies first and she is recorded as the first
person to enroll at Texas A&I. However, As a
footnote to that, she did recognize that Porter S.
Garner Sr., at the time, was in fact the first
person and allowed her to be enrolled first.
Tremendous academic influence on me as a young
man. Had two older sisters, both graduates of the
University of Texas with multiple degrees. Our
grandfather, Porter S. Garner Sr., voracious
reader, often emphasized reading and often
rewarded us with books, particularly for
birthdays and other anniversaries.
So, a tremendous influence on my life, Haskell,
from the standpoint of learning, gaining
knowledge, being self-informed. In addition to
that, my father and mother were both college
graduates and promoted the value of education
from my earliest recollection.
My father came to Texas A&M in 1941, and Texas A&M
had just won a national championship in football.
He was a pretty good athlete. He went to World War
II. was injured in Germany, severely so, but came
back to Laredo, married my mother, a graduate of
the Our Lady of Lake College in San Antonio, and
went to work in the insurance business, but
ultimately was recruited by my mother's father to
work in the food service industry in Nuevo Laredo,
Mexico, at a place called the Cadillac Bar. And I
mention that only because It had somewhat of an
influence on me as I grew up. My interests were like
many young men. I love to hunt, finish, fish, love
the outdoors. Was not a Sterling student in high
school, but did graduate from Laredo-Nixon High
School in 1975 with honors and top 15% of my class,
what have you. But in those formative years
leading up to my graduation from high school, the
Cadillac bar influenced me from the perspective
of seeing a lot of those
people who were not privileged in any shape or
fashion.
It instilled in me an appreciation and a respect
for all people, regardless of their status in
life, their class, their upbringing, their
education, or what have you. It also, as a
byproduct, gave me a tremendous leg up on my fellow
students at Texas A&M in that I was fluent in
Spanish by the age of 15. In fact, I would say that
quite possibly at age 15, I was more fluent in
Spanish than I was in English. But I made a big
mistake in 1975 when I graduated from Laredo Nixon
High School. I took a placement test hoping to
place out of Spanish, and I did, placed out of about
12 hours of Spanish. and in retrospect after
struggling through my sophomore year at A&M I
could have sure used those grade points and
credits I'll tell you so that was a mistake on my
behalf but I'd just say that my background growing
up on the border having an interest in in the
outdoors being raised around a restaurant and bar
with predominantly Spanish-speaking employees
was a real benefit to me in many, many ways. And it
served me well when I got to Texas A&M because it
gave me a diversity and, more importantly, I
think, an appreciation for all cultures that I
would soon be thrown in with at Texas A&M that I had
not been exposed to in Laredo. Interestingly
enough, I did not come to A&M as a freshman. I was
accepted to A&M as a freshman, but like many young
men at age 17, I was in love, and I decided that
Laredo Junior College might be a good stepping
stone for me. But that soon faded. I made a trip to
College Station in the fall of 1975 to see some
friends who had in fact come to A&M. And
went to a midnight Yale practice with those
friends and met a young lady and quickly fell out of
love and reapplied for admission and came to A&M
the fall of 1976 as a sophomore. I would
characterize my three and a half years at A&M as
some of the best years of my life.
I'd say that much like you've probably heard in all
of your, I suspect in all of your interviews with
former students,
made the best friends I've ever had, people that I
consider lifelong friends.
I majored in business, specifically marketing.
Here, let us go through that. I'm sorry, I was
getting ahead of you. When you had visited before,
what were your early impressions of what the
campus seemed to be like? That's a great question,
and I could go on for about two hours on that. Being
raised by a member of the class of 45, I was brought
up to A&M in the 60s. My earliest recollection is a
class reunion, albeit I think what they call or
referred to as an informal class reunion in the
early 60s, when Texas A&M was not winning a whole
lot of football games. However, That didn't stop
the Class of 45 from coming to town and having a good
time. I do recall many late night parties
discussing not only the football fortunes, but
the future of the then football coach. But in 1967,
I was about 10 years old, we came to a football game
on my birthday and Texas A&M won the game. We went
back to the Ramada Inn with a class of 45
traditionally gathered in a party room. and there
wasn't much discussion. There wasn't much talk
about the coach or the football team and the party
was over about 1030. That was a distinct
impression on me as opposed to many previous trips
where we had not won the game and the party went on
till 2 and 3 in the morning with many discussions
about you know how we were going to turn things
around. My impressions of A&M early on, Haskell,
were such that it represented something I wanted
to be a part of, something that I didn't really take
advantage of in high school, and that was an
involvement, an opportunity to participate, an
encouragement to participate by students,
faculty, staff, administrators, and quite
frankly, maybe an expectation that when you came
to A&M as a student, you were expected to be
involved and to contribute to the success of the
university. That was not my high school
experience whatsoever. So I saw that as a young
man. I witnessed it. I came to A&M in the early 70s to
see friends who had graduated prior to me, and my
impressions of A&M were one of an all-inclusive
welcome atmosphere. There wasn't a lot of who's
who or where they're from or what their father did
or what kind of car they drove, where they lived,
what kind of clothes they wore. It was just more
welcome. You're an Aggie now. We're all Aggies.
Let's go get a hamburger or pizza. That was a bigger
impression on me than the academic reputation of
the business school. I think I could have gone to
the University of Texas or Texas Tech where I had an
opportunity to attend with some financial aid and
probably had a similar academic experience. in
all honesty but the reason i came to a m was was
distinctly because of the influence of my father
and the impressions that i had over that nine or ten
year period from 1966 to 1975. now you came as a
transfer student correct were you a civilian or in
the corps i was a civilian i i wanted to be in the
corps to be honest with you But having not come as a
freshman, I had heard horror stories about
frogging in, and therefore I lived in Moore Hall
where some Laredo friends lived and just
immediately got involved in the dorm life.
Describe living in a civilian dorm in those days.
Oh, it was great. It was a great experience. It was
everything I expected. It was everything I wanted
it to be. It was a lot of what I had witnessed in the
early 70s, the camaraderie, the involvement, the
total immersion into campus life. I just can't
imagine having a better experience at Texas A&M. I
am glad that I didn't take an opportunity to live
rather cheaply, almost rent-free, off campus
with some Laredo Aggies at the time. It was a great
experience for me, no doubt. Describe how you
academically got your courses. What was the
transfer system and registration and all that?
Well, let me go back in time and say that becoming a
business major was not my decision. With my
background in the outdoors and involvement in the
Future Farmers of America in high school and my
love of agriculture, I actually had an interest in
majoring in agriculture. I had an FFA opportunity
scholarship. I had a public speaking
scholarship. All of this was basically to major in
agriculture. and at Texas A&M in one particular
scholarship. And my father talked to me very
seriously about my background and said, you know,
you've got a pretty good background in ranching
and the outdoors. Why don't you major in business?
And then if you really want to ranch or have a
significant interest in coming back to ranch or
something, get you a master's in agriculture. But
why don't you start off in business? And I'm glad he
talked me into that because I came to A&M and got
into the marketing department and absolutely
loved that. It fit my background. The transfer
aspect was somewhat paved for me by a fellow named
Ed Cooper. At the time, I believe his title was Dean
of Admissions, and we no longer have a Dean of
Admissions per se. Ed Cooper was a family friend,
had come to Laredo on several hunting trips and
shopping sprees and tying back to the Cadillac
bar. I do not recall this, however, Ed Cooper has
told me on many occasions that his first
introduction to me as a young boy was seeing me
cleaning out spittoons and sweeping and
polishing the bar rail at the Cadillac bar and
witnessing firsthand what he called my
industrious, hardworking nature. So he was quite
a champion of mine in my process to transfer to A&M
and made it rather easy for me. And I just don't
recall any real challenges to getting into Texas
A&M. And so you started off as a business major.
Correct. Describe your reaction to classes that
first semester. That was a bit of an eye-opener.
Although I graduated from a large high school,
graduated with almost 600 in my class in 1975, I'd
never attended a class with 300 people in it. So to
walk into a accounting 229 class in a theater style
setting with a stage and a microphone and speaker
system and a slide screen with 250 people in it was a
bit intimidating to me. I consequently used that
as a pretty good excuse to to not do well in the
class, and in fact took 229 again. Made a D in it my
first semester at A&M, but took it again and made a B
and then flourished in accounting 230 and so on,
but a lot of my first recollections of classes were
relative to the level of competition I was now up
against. not necessarily to the demanding nature
of the subject matter. The reading or the actual
material in the text was not intimidating to me.
What was intimidating to me was all of a sudden
being thrown in with kids who were all more
aggressive, smarter, harder working, and had
better study habits than I had. Did it matter as a
civilian student that you were a transfer? No,
sir. If it did, I was never made aware of it. And how
did you, as a transfer, get accustomed and
acquainted with all kinds of Aggie traditions?
Well, that goes back probably to my upbringing
once again. You know, with my dad being a member of
the class of 45, a rather proud class at Texas A&M, I
was introduced to traditions early on. In fact, as
a freshman in high school, I remember keeping a log
of activities at A&M that I witnessed either in
trips with my father or reading the newspaper,
used to follow sports scores, used to follow any
headline that involved Texas A&M. And I kept
somewhat of an Aggie diary. knowing that I wanted
to probably go to A&M and hope to be accepted, so I
actually had a bit of a scrapbook regarding A&M,
its traditions, any changes that were ongoing,
construction, things that I could predict that I
might enjoy when I got there in the fall of 75, which
subsequently I did not, but looked at a lot of
things in terms of anticipation. So I was
introduced to A lot of history and traditions
early on. That first semester, as you look back on
it, were there any counselors and or teachers that
were important to your life that first semester or
first year? Some by default. I was majoring in
marketing, as I said. The head of the department
was a fellow named Sam Gillespie. And I had not done
real well my first fall semester at A&M.
Accounting 229 was a major reason for that. And
went to see Sam Gillespie at his request at the end
of the semester. And was lectured somewhat about
my dedication to my studies. and tried to do a
little better in the spring and got a letter from
Sam telling me that I was not necessarily A&M
material. So I went to see him and he was not
encouraging and tried to tell me that that I would
be better served by maybe returning to Laredo
Junior College.
In retrospect, that was maybe a good conversation
for me because it pointed me down the hall to a man
named Herb Thompson. And Herb was the antithesis
of Sam Gillespie. Herb was encouraging. Herb saw
value in my experiences and treated me like the
18-year-old that I was and simply talked to me in
terms of what I really wanted out of this
experience at A&M and did I want a degree. from
college and how would I use that and did I want to be a
marketing major and just spoke to me in a very
mature way but a very conversational way not as a
professor of marketing so to speak but as a friend
who wanted to see me succeed. I would be pleased and
just quite frankly elated to go on record as
crediting Herb Thompson with a lot of the
influence, positive influence, in my academic
career at A&M. Now did you and your buddies pick up,
were there still nicknames for faculty members?
Share some of those you recall. Well, I'm trying to
think of some of the ones that I probably ought to be
on record with here. Did Herb Thompson have one?
No, he didn't. I don't remember one. No, if he did, I
don't. And Sam is too recent. He didn't get one, I
don't think. Now, we had some ugly names for some of
those guys, but... Dr. Dan the Great Point Man was
still here, and he was one of my favorites. Judge
Stewart was teaching business law, and the judge
was a guy that everybody tried to sign up for. And I
don't, you know, really until the end of semester,
I don't know that I could have told you what his
first or last name was. All I knew was during
registration in the summer of 1977, it was
emphatic that you sign up for the judges course and
uh and i did and that was a great course for me
business law 312 and uh and what what made it such an
important course he uh held up the book on the first
day of class and said has anybody bought the book
and i think four or five people had bought it by that
first day i being one of those and he said well
that's nice he said would y'all be willing to share
that with the rest of the class on occasion And I
nodded my head, and he said, because I'm going to
talk a lot. And he said, you're going to learn more
from me than you'll ever learn from reading that
book. And while that might have seemed a little
arrogant at the time, it was prophecy. It was
accurate. And it was indeed the most engaging
class I probably had at A&M. He made business law as
interesting as you can in terms of real-life
experiences. And while most of his tests related
to text material, it had practical, real-life
applications. And so that's what I recall about
that class. Describe the routine of a typical day
of classes for you and your buddies. What time did
y'all get up and what did you do when?
I was probably a throwback maybe in many ways. I
scheduled as many classes as I could early in the
morning. Having that agricultural upbringing, I
wanted the balance of my day to be available for
what I needed to get done. I sought every 8 o'clock,
9 o'clock, 10 o'clock class I could. And most of my
mornings were filled with classes. And the MSC was
a very popular venue for social or academic
opportunities, whatever. That was kind of the
midday gathering place, the watering hole, if you
will. And it was not only a place where my buddies
went. but it was probably the one universal
opportunity during a weekday to meet a young lady
or to have an excuse to study with the young lady.
And there was no other, other than maybe Sabisa
Hall for lunch, a common ground to socialize and at
the same time benefit your academic pursuits. The
afternoons, I hate to admit this on the record, but
were usually spent back at the dorm in bull
sessions or watching TV or just hanging out as we
used to do. And athletics was a big part of my life
and intramurals therein played a big part and that
was usually a late afternoon activity. And then it
was usually something at Sabisa by 5 30 or 6. That
was a big routine. And that was another social
opportunity because while you might go over and
eat within the span of 20 or 30 or 45 minutes at the
most, Sabisa was an hour or hour and a half
experience. And it was usually relative to
something other than eating. It was the
challenges of getting the certain food you wanted
back to the dorm, or the silverware you needed to
complete your set, or the tray that you needed, or
the glass that you didn't have for your
toothbrush. So there were other things that
Sabise offered as a side note. That was kind of the
day. And then if I did some really hard line
studying, it was usually in the late hours, 8
o'clock, 9 o'clock. In the dining hall, did you
civilian students use Aggie slang for the food?
Oh, yes. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. We picked up on a lot of
the old core terminology. And, you know, shoot the
blood was a common phrase you heard when you needed
the ketchup, or a deal, which was a piece of bread.
What were, as you recall, what were some of your
favorite mess hall, dining hall foods? Shoot the
blood was one of my all-time favorites. Pass the
dirt, which was the pepper. Well, but then I'm
talking about the dishes. Oh. Well, you know,
coming from Laredo, I was starved for Mexican
food. There was no Mexican food, in my opinion, in
Cebisa Dining Hall. My buddies used to kind of
anticipate my concoctions because I would
introduce them to things that, quite frankly,
this region of the country had not seen yet, such as
fajitas. Dr. Frank Litter's class of 43 got to know
me through Ed Cooper, and had me out to his house in
the fall of 1976 because he heard that I could do
something with a skirt steak that he'd never seen
as an animal science professor in all his days. I
didn't regard it as any big deal. I simply showed up
one weekend coming back from Laredo on a Sunday
night with what we called a fajita and soaked it in
some Italian dressing and threw it on a barbecue
pit and I brought some flour tortillas back from
Laredo and some avocados and some onions and I was
hailed as you know quite the chef for that
experience and so my buddies picked up on that and
of course fajitas are revolutionary now but Back
in 1976, that was a real treat to these people. It
was $1.89 a pound butcher's cut of meat. And so
going back to Sabeza, there were times when people
would ask me, what are you going to do with the
tortilla today? I'd go over and slap something in
it and introduce them to what is now, I guess, known
as a burrito or a breakfast taco. They'd never seen
scrambled eggs put in a tortilla with hot sauce.
And so while that was very common to me, it was
interesting to see the faces of people who were
trying something for the first time. Now did you
and your buddies play games in the dining hall? Oh,
a few. We had one, I guess, There's a known food
fight that is memorable to me prior to a home game on
a Friday night. And I don't know that that's
continued, but the Friday night prior to a home
football game was often the rowdiest night of the
week in Sebesa Dining Hall and much anticipated.
That was the one day of the week where at 5.30 or
5.15, I think as I recall, when the doors opened to
Sebesa, There, in fact, was a line to get in. It
might have had something to do with the fact that
you might have had a date on Friday night before a
home football game, and that involved a 7 or 8
o'clock time. But for the most part, male, female,
Sabisa was a tremendous party on Friday nights.
And yes, there were food fights, and yes, there
were games, and a lot of activity up until 7.30 when
the dining hall closed. What was the typical
dress, apparel, for a young man and civilian
student in those days? Oh, I hate to admit this to
you, Haskell, but too many tight clothes. Too many
tight clothes. Too much influence, I guess, from
Saturday Night Fever, which came out, I think, in
1976.
Bell-bottoms, t-shirt.
I wore boots quite a bit. In fact, as an interesting
side note to this interview, my first college
roommate in Moore Hall at Texas A&M was matched up
with me by virtue of my boots. I got to Moore Hall the
first day students could move in on a Tuesday
afternoon, drove up from Laredo, checked in. I bet
there weren't five students in the whole dorm,
including the resident advisors. And got very
well situated, which is my nature. And by
Wednesday or Thursday, I was touring the campus
and getting my feel for what I was going to be doing
when classes started. And on Friday, I was
expecting a roommate to show up. I don't recall his
name. Thompson, I think, was his last name, and he
never showed up. On Sunday evening, I had two young
freshmen knock on my door, and they were made aware
that I did not have a roommate. And as a transfer
student, not only do I not have a roommate, but I'm
on the first floor in a corner room. Hmm. which was a
coveted, coveted situation. And surprising to
me, as was detailed to me, that a senior hadn't
already taken that over. But these two young
freshmen knock on my door, and they are not
roommates. However, they want to be roommates.
And they detail for me that they have an option for
me. that they are living on the fourth floor, and
one of them has a roommate who is willing to move
out, and they thought he would be a good match for me
because they had seen me walking down the hall with
a pair of wingtip boots, and they said, he wears the
same boots you do. and y'all must get along y'all
must have similar backgrounds he has a deer mount
in his room and you have a deer mount in your room so i
agreed to visit with him and see what went on and uh
turns out his name was vance mitchell he was a
sophomore as i was from edna texas and we became
immediate friends and we lived together for the
better part of a year and a half until he moved out
into an apartment But I thought that was an
interesting story. Describe what was – how was
that room furnished? What was in that room? Oh, the
typical bunks that you could dismantle and
arrange. But my next roommate came along. His name
was Kevin Baker, and he was in the class of 80. And he
and I had this wild idea to build a very popular – bed
at the time that was popular around campus known as
a loft and we built a loft allowing us to bring a
couch into the room and set up the room in a